OpenHands Lemonade Integration Documentation (#240)
lemonade-sdk/lemonade: docs/server/apps/open-hands.md

# OpenHands

> [OpenHands](https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands) is an open-source AI coding agent. This document explains how to configure OpenHands to target local AI models using Lemonade server for code generation, editing, and chat capabilities. Note that much of this documentation is taken from OpenHands fantastic [guide on running local models](https://docs.all-hands.dev/usage/llms/local-llms), with some additional information on how to integrate with Lemonade Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpenHands](https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands) is an open-source AI coding agent. This document explains how to configure OpenHands to target local AI models using Lemonade Server, enabling code generation, editing, and chat capabilities. Much of this guide uses the fantastic [guide from OpenHands](https://docs.all-hands.dev/usage/llms/local-llms) on running local models, with added details on integrating with Lemonade Server.
```

There are a few things to note on this integration:

> * This integration is in its early stages. Please do test it out and report issues back to us to make the Lemonade OpenHands functionality the best that it can be.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This integration is in its early stages. We encourage you to test it and share any issues you encounter—your feedback will help us make the Lemonade–OpenHands functionality as robust as possible.

```

> * Due to the complexity of the scaffolding of agentic software agents, the compute requirements for this application is very high. For a low latency experience, we recommend using this flow with a discrete GPU with at least 16 GB VRAM, or a Strix Halo PC with at least 64 GB RAM. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Due to the complexity of the scaffolding of agentic software agents, the compute requirements for this application is very high. For a low latency experience, we recommend using a discrete GPU with at least 16 GB of VRAM, or a Strix Halo PC with at least 64 GB of RAM. 
```

## Prerequisites

> - **Docker**: OpenHands leverages Docker containers to create environments for the software agents to operate. To see how to install docker for OpenHands, see their [documentation](https://docs.all-hands.dev/usage/local-setup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Docker**: OpenHands leverages Docker containers to create environments for the software agents. To see how to install docker for OpenHands, see their [documentation](https://docs.all-hands.dev/usage/local-setup).

```

> - **Lemonade Server**: Install Lemonade Server following the [Getting started guide](https://lemonade-server.ai/docs/server/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Lemonade Server**: Install Lemonade Server using the [Getting Started Guide](https://lemonade-server.ai/docs/server/).

```

- **Server running**: Ensure Lemonade Server is running on `http://localhost:8000`

> - **Models installed**: At least one model from the [supported models list](https://lemonade-server.ai/docs/server/server_models/) downloaded locally; For OpenHands functionality, we highly recommend models denoted with the `coding` label, which can be found in your Lemonade installation's `Model Manager` or in the labels of the [models list](https://lemonade-server.ai/docs/server/server_models/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Models installed**: Ensure at least one model from the [supported models list](https://lemonade-server.ai/docs/server/server_models/) is downloaded locally. For OpenHands functionality, we recommend models denoted with the `coding` label, which can be found in your Lemonade installation's `Model Manager` or in the labels of the [models list](https://lemonade-server.ai/docs/server/server_models/). 

```

## Installation

### Launch Lemonade Server with the correct settings

> Since OpenHands runs within containers, the docker containers must be able to access the Lemonade Server. The simplest way to do this is to run the Lemonade server at IP `0.0.0.0` which the docker container can access. To do this, launch the lemonade server through the command line interface with option `--host 0.0.0.0`. It is also [recommended](https://docs.all-hands.dev/usage/llms/local-llms) by OpenHands to use a context length of at least 32768. To configure Lemonade with a non-default context size, use the parameter `--ctx-size 32768` when launching the Lemonade server. **NOTE** Such a large context size in Lemonade is currently only supported by the llamacpp backend. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since OpenHands runs inside Docker containers, the containers must be able to access the Lemonade Server. The simplest way to enable this is by running the Lemonade Server on IP address `0.0.0.0`, which is accessible from within Docker. Additionally, OpenHands [recommends](https://docs.all-hands.dev/usage/llms/local-llms) using a context length of at least 32,768 tokens. To configure Lemonade with a non-default context size, include the `--ctx-size` parameter set to `32768`. **Note:** This large context size is currently supported only by the llamacpp backend.

```bash
lemonade-server --host 0.0.0.0 --ctx-size 32768
```

```

> ### Pull the desired models with Lemonade

Reviewer: I think since you included in the prerequisites that the user needs to download the models, you can remove this section to avoid redundancy and shorten the guide.

Ensure that the models that are to be integrated with OpenHands are within the Lemonade server. Run the following command to pull the desired models into Lemonade: 

```bash
lemonade-server pull <model-name>
```

### Installing OpenHands

> Follow the instruction on the [OpenHands github](https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands/) on how to install OpenHands locally. This can be done through the `uvx` tool or through `docker`. No special installation instructions are necessary to integrate with Lemonade. In the next section we will show how to configure OpenHands to talk to a local model running via Lemonade Server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the instruction on the [OpenHands GitHub](https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands/) on how to install OpenHands locally. This can be done via the `uvx` tool or `docker`. No special installation instructions are necessary to integrate with Lemonade. In the next section, we will show how to configure OpenHands to talk to a local model running via Lemonade Server. 

```
Is it better to point to GitHub or to OpenHands docs? i.e., https://docs.all-hands.dev/usage/local-setup#local-llm-e-g-lm-studio-llama-cpp-ollama

## Launching OpenHands

> Launch OpenHands in the browser and go to `localhost:3000`. When first launching the application, it will prompt to configure the model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To launch OpenHands, open a browser and navigate to `localhost:3000`. When first launching the application, the "AI Provider Configuration" window will appear. Click on `see advanced settings`.

```
Adding this image in case you wanted to include it and annotate what the user should click on.
<img width="737" height="445" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/64a5fad6-451a-421a-bc21-846c056e104c" />

Author: Thanks for the image and suggestion! Addressed in f21b568.

> 1. When prompted, click on `see advanced settings`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
With the suggestion in above, you can remove this.

> 2. Click the `Advanced` switch to see all of the configurations 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once in the Settings menu, toggle the `Advanced` switch to see all configuration options.

```

3. Set the following values in the configuration:

> <img width="953" height="502" alt="advanced-configuration" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c710fdd-489f-4b55-8efc-faf6096a068a" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* **Custom Model**: `openai/Qwen3-Coder-30B-A3B-Instruct-GGUF`
* **Base URL**: `https://host.docker.internal:8000/api/v1/`
* **API Key**: Use a dash or any character.

The setup should look as follows::

<img width="953" height="502" alt="advanced-configuration" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c710fdd-489f-4b55-8efc-faf6096a068a" />

```

Reviewer: This just makes it so the user can easily copy the settings in. I assume everything else is default? I saw some more settings...
<img width="1210" height="874" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d297e1d8-befa-4972-9144-2b739ec36c67" />

    
4. Click `Save Settings` to save the configuration. 

## Examples

> 1. After hitting `Save Configuration` hit the `+` on the top left and hit `Launch from Scratch` to launch a new project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To launch a new project, click the `+` on the top left and hit `Launch from Scratch`. 

```

> 2. Wait for the runtime to start. This will take 1-2 minutes and you can track the progress on the bottom left. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Wait for the runtime to start. This process typically takes 1–2 minutes. You can monitor progress in the bottom-left corner of the screen. The runtime is ready when you see the message: “Agent is awaiting user input…”

```

> 3. Input the prompt "Write me a flask website that prints "Welcome to OpenHands + Lemonade!" make the website fun with a theme of lemons and laptops.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter your prompt. 

*For example: "Write me a flask website that prints "Welcome to OpenHands + Lemonade!" make the website fun with a theme of lemons and laptops.".*

When the workload is running, the bottom left will show "Agent is running task"

```
Check my formatting here, it's hard to do suggestions and make sure I've got them right.

Author: Looks good! OpenHands changed a little so I had to change the wording a bit.

> 4. After some time to process the intial prompt, the agents actions will start to appear on the left and files that are created should start appearing on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. After processing the initial prompt, the agent’s actions will begin appearing on the left side of the screen. Any files it creates will show up on the right.

```

<img width="947" height="503" alt="first-prompt" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/78e7d87f-effa-4a7a-a7ee-1ec3b01917d1" />

> 6. As a user, you can interact with the environment that the software agent is to track progress and view artifacts. Below is an example of using the Web Browser functionality to view the website that the agent created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. As a user, you can interact with the environment where the software agent operates to monitor progress and view generated artifacts. Below is an example using the Web Browser feature to preview the website created by the agent.

```

<img width="947" height="497" alt="completed-prompt" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5dd394bc-0f7f-4263-8019-02fd99534b2d" />

7. That's it! You just created a website from scratch using OpenHands integrated with a local LLM powered by Lemonade Server.

> ## Common Issues

Reviewer: Suggestion on what else a user could do. Examples might be: try a different model by updating the configuration settings, build a game, something else I can't think of that maybe you played with and had a good experience?

> * Certain small models can struggle with tool calling which can cause them to run in infinite loops. This can be seen by the agent continously running the same command that is resulting in an error. When this occurs, we recommend stopping the agent and providing a prompt to get the agent out of the loop or using a model that is better at using the tools provided by OpenHands.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Some small models can struggle with tool calling, which can lead to infinite loops. This typically occurs when the agent repeatedly runs the same command that results in an error. If you notice this behavior, we recommend stopping the agent and providing a new prompt to help it exit the loop. Alternatively, use a model that better handles the tools provided by OpenHands. 

```

Reviewer: I'm not quite sure I would know what this looks like to be able to identify it happening. Is it obvious when the agent gets loopy?

Author: Just added an example and screen shot of this behavior in [0d21b58](https://github.com/eddierichter-amd/lemonade/commit/0d21b58806db854daf72ef3002f365cc5d0e5f28). Let me know what you think.

## Resources

> * [OpenHands github](https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [OpenHands GitHub](https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands/)

```

## Launching OpenHands

To launch OpenHands, open a browser and navigate to `localhost:3000`. When first launching the application, the "AI Provider Configuration" window will appear. Click on `see advanced settings` as shown in the image below:
<img width="1221" height="740" alt="annotated-ai-provider-configuration" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1e8b65cd-2409-4e94-92c6-f96adaede491" />

1. Once in the Settings menu, toggle the `Advanced` switch to see all configuration options.

2. Set the following values in the configuration:

* **Custom Model**: `openai/Qwen3-Coder-30B-A3B-Instruct-GGUF`
* **Base URL**: `https://host.docker.internal:8000/api/v1/`
* **API Key**: Use a dash or any character.

The setup should look as follows::

<img width="953" height="502" alt="advanced-configuration" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c710fdd-489f-4b55-8efc-faf6096a068a" />

    
3. Click `Save Settings`. 

## Using OpenHands

> 1. To launch a new project, click the `+` on the top left.

Author: With the latest version there is actually no "Launch from Scratch".
